----This is a macine-translated document, if you are confused by reading this, please read original document in japanese. ----Data separation version rogue clone II*IntroductionThis game is due to pure Mr.Ohta of the (Inc.)Ricoh software division the separation of the program and data based on 'Japanese rogue clone 2 version 1.3'The game has neither original one nor most changes. This program is a separation of the message and the program because [it] makes it as the message is liked. no recompile <"rogue" which changes it>*Method of gameBecause data is separate, this game should give the file name as an argument. Example: rogue mesgAdditionally, the specification of option s(The score is seen) or the saving file etc. are given after the message file. Example: rogue mesg -srogue mesg savedfile*About the copyrightUse, the modification, and the re-distribution can be freely done a free copy of this program it including the source and the execution file. This program makes Rogue-clone:Version II of an English version by Tim Stoehr Japanese by pure Mr. Ohta and is the one that I separated debugging for UNIX and the message as for what transplanted to MS-DOS. Because Tim Stothr and I are abandoning the copyright, pure Mr. Ohta has the copyright and the writer character right of a Japanese version. The part (Refer to README.doc) which pure Mr. Ohta does not affect is complete PDS. Please refer to document README.doc which pure Mr. Ohta wrote for details concerning the copyright. *To compile.Operation in the following environment is confirmed in UNIX environment. SunOS 4.1.1 (Sun Sparc Station 1) gccUniOS- B (OMRON LUNA) cc, gccNeXT step 2.1J (NeXT Cube Monochrome 68030) cc, gcc386BSD (NEC PC- 9801DA) gccPlease use and compile a suitable part of Makefile.nix. * Cc etc. of Sparc(condition) ? "Character-string constant 1" and "Character-string constant 2"In the compiler, the way things are going, it will not be possible to compile. * Because ioctl() is used with machdep.c, it is necessary to use cpp of traditional according to the environment. Be careful in gcc 2.0 or more because it is conforming of ANSI by default. * System V is not so tested. Some function names of the library might be different. * [It] does not correspond to terminfo of System V. Please simulate termcap. .It is unpalatable to use it on MS-DOS *. Please convert c and mesg * into Shift-JIS. Microsoft CBorland COperation on was confirmed. It is likely to be able to compile also with Lattice-C though it is not possible to confirm because there is no processing system (Seem to be able to do in the original). Please use the compiler which passes Shift-JIS code. The data area is large and compile by the Huge model, please. Makefile.tcc has not been mended. #Any longer, it is sure not to be able to compile by the compiler to which the nest of if is not permitted. In the machine with a little main storage, it is not likely to be able not to compile and to execute it. There is being not able to do the last link alone when make is used. Some corrections might be necessary of the problem of the function declaration etc.Please why BATCHCOM.COM(batchcom.uue) of the attachment must not operate, and rewrite INSTALL.BAT(install.uue) suitably and generate Makefile. Please refer to document README.doc which pure Mr. Ohta wrote for details. .It is unpalatable to use it on Human 68k(X68000) *. Please convert c and mesg * into Shift-JIS. Operation in the library of gcc+XC is confirmed. Because XC is not installed whether it is possible to compile with XC in KMC any longer, it is not possible to confirm it. ÅûCompiler option-DUNIXAll UNIX systems. -DUNIX_BSD4_2Since 4.2BSD (4.1 also :). -DUNIX_386BSDSystem with fpurge(FILE*stream) (The content of the buffer is thrown away). Usual flush cannot be done by FILE structural body's having changed in 386BSD. -<DUNIX> - DUNIX_BSD4_2 is necessary. -DUNIX_SYSVAt System V. -At DCURSES, termcap of considerable BSD is necessary. -DMSDOSAt MS-DOS and Human 68k. -DHUMANAt Human 68k. -DMSDOS is necessary. -DCURSESCurses of the attachment is used. The curses library of the system is used when this is not. -DCOLOR[It] makes it to the color. -It is necessary to use curses of the attachment applying DCURSES. It is not possible to do on UNIX (Think). -DJAPAN[It] changes to a Japanese mode. - excluding NeXT DCURSES is necessary. (?)Both of NeXT are acceptable. -DEUCKanji character code is made UNIX JIS. If this is not applied, [it] becomes Shift-JIS. -It is meaningless when there is no DJAPAN.  -DTOPSCOTwo or more same people are displayed in the highest score. If this is not applied, only the person's highest one is displayed. It is necessary to change the 187th description of the message file by this presence. -DORIGINALThe original by Tim Stothr is compiled. It is not possible to compile by having already applied this (;_:). *Change point from Japanese rogue clone 2 version 1.3.The message and the program were separated, and the message was read from the file given by the first argument when the program started. The structure of the message fileMessage number "Message"All the parts except Ç≈ and this format are skipped as a comment. Please note reckless driving when a necessary message has come off. When DEUC is specified, it should be UNIX JIS, and not so be Shift-JIS when the Chinese character is used. <code> -The one with different length like the control code displayed as the number of bytes cannot be used. Moreover, (double quotation mark ") cannot be included. .Termcap of UNIX was interpreted as follows. 1) The termcap entry is specified for environment variable TERMCAP. Or,2) The type of the terminal is specified for TERM, and the termcap file name is specified for TERMCAP (If TERMCAP is not specified in this case, it is considered/etc/termcap). .The place of # if defined(JAPAN) && defined(CURSES) of the source assumes NeXT. .The bug with an amusing relation of how of the ring and food to decrease was mended. .The value of environment variable FIGHTER priority as a name of the player over the value of USER. *Bug.When the screen is dumped (Control-D), the Chinese character becomes amusing when jcurses of NeXT is used and compiled. The reason for this is that the most significant bit of screen information obtained from jcurses is amusing. Measures have been done in save game command (S). .When it is an interpretation of termcap, and the same entry exists, the last one becomes effective (It is preferable that the one becomes effective first by thinking there is tc = entry in reality). Moreover, any @ (It is shown that the entry does not exist) is the same as not being. .The display of the uppermost part might become amusing on Sparc(kterm/X11R4). It is the one that [ Continue ] remain. Though it might be a bug of kterm. .Playmenu.c is sure not to move as it is. [It] because [it] does not use it. It is a source like the former. I think that [it] moves if the argument of the message file name is given to rogue.exe. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------Sept. 10, 1992Kyoto University Micro Computer ClubIto Yasufumibrx@kmc.kyoto-u.ac.jp